README.md, before:

# Spackle Ruby Library

[![CI](https://github.com/spackleso/spackle-ruby/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spackleso/spackle-ruby/actions/workflows/test.yml)

The Spackle Ruby library provides optimized access to billing aware flags created on the Spackle platform.

## Documentation

See the [Ruby API docs](https://docs.spackle.so/ruby).

## Setup

### Install the Spackle library

```sh
gem install spackle-ruby
```

### Bundler

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'spackle-ruby'
```

### Configure your environment
In order to use Spackle, you need to configure your API key on the `Spackle` module. You can find your API key in Spackle app [settings page](https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/apps/so.spackle.stripe).

```ruby
require 'spackle'

Spackle.api_key = "<api key>"
```

### Bootstrap the client (optional)

The Spackle client requires a single initialization step that includes a network request. To front load this process, you can call the `bootstrap` method in your codebase.

```ruby
Spackle.bootstrap()
```

## Usage

### Fetch a customer

Spackle uses stripe ids as references to customer features.

```ruby
customer = Spackle::Customer.retrieve("cus_00000000")
```

### Verify feature access

```ruby
customer.enabled("feature_key")
```

### Fetch a feature limit

```ruby
customer.limit("feature_key")
```

## Logging
The Spackle Ruby library emits logs as it performs various internal tasks. You can control the verbosity of Spackle's logging a few different ways:

1. Set the environment variable SPACKLE_LOG to the value `debug`, `info`, or `error`

   ```sh
   $ export SPACKLE_LOG=debug
   ```

2. Set Spackle.log_level:

   ```ruby
   Spackle.log_level = 'debug'
   ```

## Usage in development environments
In production, Spackle requires a valid Stripe customer. However, that is not development environments where state needs to be controlled. As an alternative, you can use a file store to test your application with seed data.

```json
/app/spackle.json

{
  "cus_000000000": {
    "features": [
      {
        "key": "flag_feature",
        "value_flag": true
      },
      {
        "key": "limit_feature",
        "value_limit": 100
      }
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      {
        "id": "sub_000000000",
        "status": "trialing",
        "quantity": 1
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Then configure the file store in your application:

```ruby
Spackle.store = Spackle::FileStore.new('/app/spackle.json')
```

## Usage in test environments

In production, Spackle requires a valid Stripe customer. However, that is not ideal in testing or some development environments. As an alternative, you can use an in-memory store to test your application with seed data.

```ruby
Spackle.store = Spackle::MemoryStore.new()
Spackle.store.set_customer_data("cus_000000000", {
  "features": [
    {
      "key": "flag_feature",
      "value_flag": True,
    },
    {
      "key": "limit_feature",
      "value_limit": 100,
    },
  ],
  "subscriptions": [
     {
       "id": "sub_000000000",
       "status": "trialing",
       "quantity": 1,
     }
  ]
})
```

**Note:** The in-memory store is not thread-safe and state will reset on each application restart.

Commit message:

adds subscriptions to Spackle::Customer

README.md, after:

# Spackle Ruby Library

[![CI](https://github.com/spackleso/spackle-ruby/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/spackleso/spackle-ruby/actions/workflows/test.yml)

The Spackle Ruby library provides optimized access to billing aware flags created on the Spackle platform.

## Documentation

See the [Ruby API docs](https://docs.spackle.so/ruby).

## Setup

### Install the Spackle library

```sh
gem install spackle-ruby
```

### Bundler

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'spackle-ruby'
```

### Configure your environment
In order to use Spackle, you need to configure your API key on the `Spackle` module. You can find your API key in Spackle app [settings page](https://dashboard.stripe.com/settings/apps/so.spackle.stripe).

```ruby
require 'spackle'

Spackle.api_key = "<api key>"
```

### Bootstrap the client (optional)

The Spackle client requires a single initialization step that includes a network request. To front load this process, you can call the `bootstrap` method in your codebase.

```ruby
Spackle.bootstrap()
```

## Usage

### Fetch a customer

Spackle uses stripe ids as references to customer features.

```ruby
customer = Spackle::Customer.retrieve("cus_00000000")
```

### Verify feature access

```ruby
customer.enabled("feature_key")
```

### Fetch a feature limit

```ruby
customer.limit("feature_key")
```

### Examine a customer's subscriptions

A customer's current subscriptions are available on the `subscriptions` property. These are valid `Stripe::Subscription` objects as defined in the [Stripe Ruby library](https://stripe.com/docs/api/subscriptions/object?lang=ruby).

```ruby
customer.subscriptions
```

## Logging
The Spackle Ruby library emits logs as it performs various internal tasks. You can control the verbosity of Spackle's logging a few different ways:

1. Set the environment variable SPACKLE_LOG to the value `debug`, `info`, or `error`

   ```sh
   $ export SPACKLE_LOG=debug
   ```

2. Set Spackle.log_level:

   ```ruby
   Spackle.log_level = 'debug'
   ```

## Usage in development environments
In production, Spackle requires a valid Stripe customer. However, that is not development environments where state needs to be controlled. As an alternative, you can use a file store to test your application with seed data.

```json
/app/spackle.json

{
  "cus_000000000": {
    "features": [
      {
        "key": "flag_feature",
        "value_flag": true
      },
      {
        "key": "limit_feature",
        "value_limit": 100
      }
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      {
        "id": "sub_000000000",
        "status": "trialing",
        "quantity": 1
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Then configure the file store in your application:

```ruby
Spackle.store = Spackle::FileStore.new('/app/spackle.json')
```

## Usage in test environments

In production, Spackle requires a valid Stripe customer. However, that is not ideal in testing or some development environments. As an alternative, you can use an in-memory store to test your application with seed data.

```ruby
Spackle.store = Spackle::MemoryStore.new()
Spackle.store.set_customer_data("cus_000000000", {
  "features": [
    {
      "key": "flag_feature",
      "value_flag": True,
    },
    {
      "key": "limit_feature",
      "value_limit": 100,
    },
  ],
  "subscriptions": [
     {
       "id": "sub_000000000",
       "status": "trialing",
       "quantity": 1,
     }
  ]
})
```

**Note:** The in-memory store is not thread-safe and state will reset on each application restart.
